the head of the World Health
Organization says the anaset hospital in
southern Gaza is no longer functional
Tedros gabrio says nearly 200 patients
are still trapped in the facility at
least 20 of whom need urgent medical
attention we'll now speak to Dr Ahmed
mugabi who's the head of the plastic
surgery and burns Department in El nasad
hospital um Dr mugabi you're joining us
now from Raa I understand that you
managed to evacuate from a nasad
hospital early this week tell us what
you
saw Yes yes thank you uh you know I
actually I considered myself lucky
actually to manage to escape from this
death sh
Point uh invading the hospital uh as all
of you know it is a real genocide it is
a genocide invading the hospitals it is
a genocide I can't really there is no
more to describe you about the horror
that we are that we were facing me and
my staff and my family and all people my
patients that night it is a real horror
what is what what was what was happening
I'm shouting we are screaming since long
time and I'm telling you and I asked the
the the the the leaders of this world
how many videos do you have to see us
killing seeing us seeing this real
genocide happening in front of your eyes
and nothing nothing just silence just
silence they arrested all medical stuff
at the ner
hospital all the medical stuff I'm lucky
because I escap but theyed everybody
there were a horrible torture that night
the at that was beginning at beginning
at 1:30 a.m. Thursday I was at the third
floor where is my family also
staying we he lots of quad capar all all
around all around the the nas over our
heads at NAS hospital they were asking
us to EV to evacuate the hospital
immediately then I realized that
something will go will happen after this
exactly around around like 2 a.m.
Thursday I he very big explosions they
bombed the third floor where I'm staying
with my my family they bombed the the
the orthopedic Department
I took my my phone I I captured a video
I recorded some some videos for the dead
bodies it was full smoke injured people
it was like a chaos it's like a judgment
day everybody running there and there I
changed my scrub and I wear this my
clothes and I took my family and I ran
away from the hospital with some of
medical
staff and at the Gate of the hospital
about 50 m there was a cheick point with
with tanks with dogs with Israeli
soldiers and they were shaking everybody
who actually he went from the hospital
outside there was speci there were
special cameras at this time can you can
you imagine that it is night and cold
children were
screaming you know patients I have
elderly patients who couldn't walk with
me Dr M my Nur at at nurse uh Ramy yeah
it's difficult to comprehend how this is
I can I can hear you listening to your
stories it's difficult to comprehend how
this is allowed to happen but you were
mentioning that they took all your
colleagues can you just clarify what's
happened to your colleagues at Nasa
hospital and also what's happened to the
patients there the wh seems to say that
there are about 200 patients who are
left inside the hospital do you have any
information about their
status yes yes yes yes yes some offs
managed actually to evate the hospital
but the rest of the patients actually
remained at ICU intubated and they will
face their fate maybe they passed away
already but we managed to get some
patience from building to other building
we managed to move some patients from
building to from one building to other
building as the Israeli troop actually
entered the the the the hospital that
that night
they arrested all the REM all all of the
remnant medical stuff my colleagues who
remained at the hospital all of them
actually are were arrested so there is a
list for the medical stuff but this is
not complete I I guess there are around
100 beside me at the checkpoint they
took my nurse they took my nurse beside
me and they talk my another nurse at my
department with my assistant doctor he's
a GB doctor also he was arrested but
their names not mentioned in the list
lots of medical stuff actually have been
arrested what do you make then of the
Israeli claims when they say that they
raided Al nasad hospital because they're
acting on intelligence without providing
evidence but they're acting on
intelligence that the bodies of some of
the Israeli captives might be
there I I I I guess now you you you you
know the the the the the the the the the
idea of the IDF and they they are liars
they are liars maybe maybe we have seen
what they have done at ala at Indonesian
Hospital Kamal Edan actually they attack
all hospitals Nas hospital is is the
main hospital here at kanones at South
of Gaza do you think they they need any
reason to invade this Hospital what what
kind of Reason what kind of reason they
are liars h
what kind of
reasons just they want to they destroyed
everything everything that's it they
want to destroy everything without any
reason they can say
Liars are there any functioning H
hospitals left remaining in KH
unes still one only e Hospital European
Gaza hospital this the the only hospital
now remain functioning but n hospital
now out of service it's not functioning
hospital it is real it is real genocide
invading just invading the hospital it
is a real genocide if you don't speak
about dead bodies about arresting
medical stuff so why why they why they
arrested medical stuff about 100 why
tell me why and by the way they are
beating them my nurse was behind what
was beside me next to me okay they were
checking us and they took him and they
asked him actually to take off all all
clothes at midnight it was cold and take
him and I I I I I I I was I was
listening to him he was screaming there
outside inside he was screaming because
they they used to beat
him Dr Ahmed M uh it's difficult to know
what to say to you but we we'll have to
leave it there we thank you so much for
um Coming on air with us and telling us
what you've witnessed and what you've
been through at L Nas Hospital thank you
I